# Crux
## Licences
### Apache
Crux is covered by an Apache license but depends on several libraries
that have other licences. You must read and agree to these other
licenses before using Crux:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

    You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

    You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and

    You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

    If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License. You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

### AB Sciex WiffReader

AB Sciex LLC

END USER BETA SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT and LIMITED DEVELOPER LICENSE

WIFF Reader Distributable Beta SDK

NOTICE TO USER: PLEASE READ THIS DOCUMENT CAREFULLY.  THIS IS THE
CONTRACT BETWEEN YOU AND AB SCIEX REGARDING THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT.
THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES LICENSE TERMS AND RESTRICTIONS, WARRANTY AND
LIABILITY DISCLAIMERS, AND LIMITATIONS.

YOUR INSTALLATION AND USE OF THIS AB SCIEX SDK IS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS
AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED IN THIS END USER SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT.

This AB Sciex End User Software License Agreement (EULA) and Limited
Developer & Redistribution License accompanies this AB Sciex WIFF
Reader Distributable Beta SDK product ("Software") and related
explanatory materials ("Documentation"). The term "SDK" also includes
any upgrades, modified versions, updates, additions and copies of the
SDK licensed to you by AB Sciex.  The term “AB Sciex,” as used in this
License, means AB Sciex LLC and its subsidiaries and affiliates.  The
term “License” or “Agreement” means this EULA and Limited Developer &
Redistribution License including any and all Appendices.  The term
“you” or “Licensee” means the purchaser of this License to the
Software.

Third Party Products

This Software may include software products licensed by third party
provider(s). In addition, the Software may enable you to run multiple
instances of third-party software and application programs. You are
responsible for reviewing and complying with any licenses necessary to
use any such third-party software.  Such licenses may be included in
your AB Sciex installation package.

TITLE

Title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the
Software and Documentation shall at all times remain with AB Sciex and
its subsidiaries, and their suppliers.  All rights not specifically
granted by this License, including Federal and international
copyrights, are reserved by AB Sciex or their respective owners.

COPYRIGHT

The Software, including its structure, organization, code, user
interface and associated Documentation, is a proprietary product of AB
Sciex or its suppliers, and is protected by international laws of
copyright. The law provides for civil and criminal penalties for
anyone in violation of the laws of copyright.

LICENSE

Use of the Software

As a Developer License, AB Sciex grants to you one (1) personal,
nontransferable, nonexclusive, license to use copies of the Software
and install such Software on your machine(s) for your single
concurrent internal use.

2. You may make one copy of the Software in machine-readable form
   solely for backup or archival purposes.  You must reproduce on any
   such copy all copyright notices and any other proprietary legends
   found on the originnal.  You may not make any other copies of the
   Software.

3. From time to time, AB Sciex may change the terms of this Agreement.
   AB Sciex will notify you of such change.  Your continued use of the
   Software will indicate your agreement to the change.


Use Restrictions

1.  You may not use the Software, Documentation, or any associated
    documentation, in whole or in part, except as expressly permitted
    in this Agreement.

2.  You may not sublicense, copy, merge, modify, sell, resell, rent,
    lease, assign, transfer (except temporarily in the event of a
    computer malfunction or as expressly permitted under the Section
    “Use of the Software”), or distribute this license or the
    Software, or create derivative works based on the Software (except
    as outlined in the Distribution Rights below), or any part thereof
    or any interest therein.

3.  You may not reverse assemble, decompile, modify, create any
    derivative works, or otherwise attempt, cause, or permit any
    reverse engineering of the Software or any part thereof.

4.  You acknowledge that the Software in human-readable (source code)
    form, including its structure, sequence, and organization, is and
    remains the confidential trade secret of AB Sciex.  You agree that
    you shall not attempt, cause or permit the reverse engineering,
    modification, decompiliation, disassembly of the Software to any
    human readable or perceivable form, or creation of any derivative
    works based on the Software or any part thereof except as
    expressly permitted under the Section “Use of the Software”.

5.  You may not remove any proprietary, copyright, trade secret or
    warning legend from the Software or any Documentation and you
    acknowledge that the Software in human-readable (source code)
    form, including its structure, sequence, and organization, is and
    remains the confidential trade secret of AB Sciex.

6.  You agree to comply fully with all export laws and restrictions
    and regulations of the United States or applicable foreign
    agencies or authorities.  You agree that you will not export or
    reexport, directly or indirectly, the Software into any country
    prohibited by the United States Export Administration Act and the
    regulations thereunder or other applicable United States law.

Distribution of the Distributable Components (DCs)

1.  Distributable Components. The Software contains Distributable
    Components that you are permitted to distribute for non-commercial
    purposes provided that: (a) the Distributable Components are
    bundled as part of, and for the sole purpose of running programs
    developed by you and supplied by you; and (b) you comply with all
    other terms in this EULA.  As used herein commercial purposes
    include, but are not limited to, charging a purchase price,
    license fee, maintenance fee, subscription fee, or providing
    software incorporating Distributable Components for use with a
    product sold by you or an affiliate.

2.  Right to Use and Distribute. The code and text files listed in
    Appendix A are “Distributable Components”.  All other code and
    text files of the Software are not distributable.

3.  Third Party Distribution. You may not permit distributors of your
    programs or end users of your programs to copy and distribute the
    Distributable Components as part of those or their programs.

4.  Distribution Requirements, General. For any Distributable
    Component you distribute, you must:
    (a) embed the license key in your program such that it is obscured from end users seeing it.  In the event that your program is open source, this license key must not be part of the open source;
    (b) add significant primary functionality to it in your programs;
    (c) for any Distributable Component having a filename extension of .lib, distribute only the results of running such Distributable Component through a linker with your program;
    (d) distribute Distributable Components included in a setup program only as part of that setup program without modification;
    (e) require distributors and external end users to agree to terms that protect it at least as much as this EULA; and
    (f) display your valid copyright notice on your programs.


5.  Distribution Requirement, Indemnification.  For any Distributable
    Component you distribute, you must and you hereby agree to:
    indemnify, defend, and hold harmless AB Sciex from any and all
    claims and costs, including attorneys’ fees, related to the
    distribution or use of your programs.


6.  Distribution Restrictions. You may not:
    (a) alter any copyright, trademark or patent notice in the Distributable Component;
    (b) use AB Sciex or AB Sciex’s trademarks in your programs’ names or in a way that suggests your programs come from or are endorsed by AB Sciex;
    (c) include Distributable Components in malicious, deceptive or unlawful programs; or
    (d) modify or distribute the source code of any Distributable Component so that any part of it becomes subject to an Excluded License. An Excluded License is one that requires, as a condition of use, modification or distribution, that (i) the code be disclosed or distributed in source code form; and/or (ii) others have the right to modify it.

Trial

If this license is granted on a trial basis, you are hereby notified
that license management software may be included to automatically
cause the Software to cease functioning at the end of the trial
period.

Termination

You may terminate this Agreement by discontinuing use of the Software,
removing all copies from your computers and storage media, and
returning the Software and Documentation, and all copies thereof, to
AB Sciex.  AB Sciex may terminate this Agreement if you fail to comply
with all of its terms, in which case you agree to discontinue using
the Software, remove all copies from your computers and storage media,
and return the Software and Documentation, and all copies thereof, to
AB Sciex.

U.S. Government End Users

The Software is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48
C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software"
and "commercial computer software documentation," as such terms are
used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48
C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),
all U.S. Government End Users acquire the Software with only those
rights set forth herein.

European Community End Users

If this Software is used within a country of the European Community,
nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as restricting any rights
available under the European Community Software Directive,
O.J. Eur. Comm. (No. L. 122) 42 (1991).

Regulated Uses

You acknowledge that the Software has not been cleared, approved,
registered or otherwise qualified (collectively, “Approval”) by AB
Sciex with any regulatory agency, including without limitation for use
in diagnostic or therapeutic procedures or any other use requiring
compliance with any federal or state law regulating diagnostic or
therapeutic products, blood products, medical devices or any similar
product (hereafter collectively referred to as "federal or state drug
laws").  The Software may not be used for any purpose that would
require any such Approval unless proper Approval is obtained.  You
agree that if you elect to use the Software for a purpose that would
subject you or the Software to the jurisdiction of any federal or
state drug laws, you will be solely responsible for obtaining any
required Approvals and otherwise ensuring that your use of the
Software complies with such laws.

NO WARRANTY and LIMITATION OF REMEDIES

AB SCIEX MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR
MERCHANTABILITY OR THAT THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION IS
NON-INFRINGING.  ALL OTHER WARRANTIES ARE EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, AB SCIEX MAKES NO
WARRANTIES THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS, THAT
OPERATION OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE
OR WILL CONFORM EXACTLY TO THE DOCUMENTATION, OR THAT AB SCIEX WILL
CORRECT ALL PROGRAM ERRORS.  AB SCIEX’S SOLE LIABILITY AND
RESPONSIBILITY FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE OR
DOCUMENTATION SHALL BE LIMITED, AT AB SCIEX’S SOLE OPTION, TO (1)
correctION of any error identified to ab sciex in A writing from you
in a subsequent release of the Software, which shall be supplied to
you free of charge, (2) acceptING a return of the PRODUCT and
refundING THE purchase price UPON RETURN OF THE PRODUCT AND REMOVAL OF
ALL COPIES OF THE SOFTWARE FROM YOUR COMPUTERS AND STORAGE DEVICES,
(3) REPLACEMENT OF THE DEFECTIVE SOFTWARE WITH A FUNCTIONALLY
EQUIVALENT PROGRAM AT NO CHARGE TO YOU, OR (4) PROVIDING A REASONABLE
WORK AROUND WITHIN A REASONABLE TIME.  AB SCIEX SOLE LIABILITY AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY RELATING TO
MEDIA IS THE REPLACEMENT OF DEFECTIVE MEDIA RETURNED WITHIN 90 DAYS OF
THE DELIVERY DATE.  THESE ARE YOUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES FOR ANY
BREACH OF WARRANTY.  warranty claims must be made within the
applicable warranty period.

Limitation of Liability

IN NO EVENT SHALL AB SCIEX OR ITS AGENTS, CONSULTANTS, CONTRACTORS OR
SUPPLIERS BE RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT,
WARRANTY OR UNDER ANY STATUTE (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY TRADE
PRACTICE, UNFAIR COMPETITION OR OTHER STATUTE OF SIMILAR IMPORT) OR ON
ANY OTHER BASIS FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, MULTIPLE, PUNITIVE,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE POSSESSION OR USE OF, OR
THE INABILITY TO USE, THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF AB SCIEX
IS ADVISED IN ADVANCE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION DAMAGES ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO LOSS OF USE,
LOSS OF DATA, DOWNTIME, OR FOR LOSS OF REVENUE, PROFITS, GOODWILL OR
BUSINESS OR OTHER FINANCIAL LOSS.  IN ANY CASE, THE ENTIRE LIABILITY
OF AB SCIEX AND ITS AGENTS, CONSULTANTS, CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS
UNDER THIS LICENSE, OR ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE, SHALL
NOT EXCEED IN THE AGGREGATE THE PURCHASE PRICE OF THE LICENSE OR
LICENSES TO THE SOFTWARE.

Some states, countries or jurisdictions limit the scope of or preclude
limitations or exclusion of remedies or damages, or of liability, such
as liability for gross negligence or willful misconduct, as or to the
extent set forth above, OR do not allow implied warranties TO BE
EXCLUDED.  In such states, countries or jurisdictions, the limitation
or exclusion of warranties, remedies, damages or liability set forth
above may not apply to you.  however, although they shall not apply to
the extent prohibited by law, they shall apply to the fullest extent
permitted by law.  YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY BY STATE,
COUNTRY OR OTHER JURISDICTION.

GENERAL

This Agreement shall be governed by laws of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, U.S.A., exclusive of its conflict of laws provisions.
This Agreement shall not be governed by the United Nations Convention
on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.  This Agreement
contains the complete agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous
agreements or understandings, whether oral or written.  If any
provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be contrary to law, that provision will be enforced to
the maximum extent permissible, and the remaining provisions of this
Agreement will remain in full force and effect.  The controlling
language of this Agreement, and any proceedings relating to this
Agreement, shall be English.  You agree to bear any and all costs of
translation, if necessary.  The headings to the sections of this
Agreement are used for convenience only and shall have no substantive
meaning.  All questions concerning this Agreement shall be directed
to: AB Sciex, 500 Old Connecticut Path, Framingham MA U.S.A.,
Attention: Legal Department.

Unpublished rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United
States.

AB Sciex LLC, 500 Old Connecticut Path, Framingham, MA 01701 U.S.A.

For Research Use Only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures.  The
trademarks mentioned herein are the property of AB Sciex Pte. Ltd. or
their respective owners.  AB SCIEX™ is being used under license.

© 2012 AB SCIEX

APPENDIX A

DISTRIBUTABLE COMPONENTS OF THE SOFTWARE

Clearcore2.Compression.dll
Clearcore2.Data.AnalystDataProvider.dll
Clearcore2.Data.CommonInterfaces.dll
Clearcore2.Data.dll
Clearcore2.Data.WiffReader.dll
Clearcore2.InternalRawXYProcessing.dll
Clearcore2.Muni.dll
Clearcore2.ProjectUtilities.dll
Clearcore2.RawXYProcessing.dll
Clearcore2.StructuredStorage.dll
Clearcore2.Utility.dll

### Agilent MHDAC

END-USER LICENSE TERMS FOR AGILENT MHDAC

AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS FOR THE MASSHUNTER
DATA ACCESS COMPONENT RUNTIME VERSION

ATTENTION: USE OF THE SOFTWARE IS SUBJECT TO THE LICENSE TERMS SET
FORTH BELOW.

IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE LICENSE TERMS, THEN (A) DO NOT INSTALL OR
USE THE SOFTWARE, AND (B) YOU MAY RETURN THE SOFTWARE FOR A FULL
REFUND, OR, IF THE SOFTWARE IS SUPPLIED AS PART OF ANOTHER PRODUCT,
YOU MAY RETURN THE ENTIRE PRODUCT FOR A FULL REFUND. NOTWITHSTANDING
ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY IN THIS NOTICE, INSTALLING OR OTHERWISE USING
THE SOFTWARE INDICATES YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS.

AGILENT SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS

Software.  “Software” means the Masshunter Data Access Component
Runtime computer program in object code format.

License Grant.  Agilent grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable
license to (a) use one copy of the Software for internal purposes in
accordance with these License Terms and the documentation provided
with the Software or (b) to distribute the Software for non-commercial
purposes only and only bundled as part of, and for the sole purpose of
running, products supplied by you.  This Software is licensed for
internal concurrent or network use of an unlimited number of copies,
provided access to this Software and any copies is restricted to your
employees, contractors and other personnel that are working in a
capacity that is under your control and on your behalf.  If you
distribute for non-commercial purposes only as permitted by this
license, you must ensure that a copy of this license is distributed
with the Software and that the recipient of the Software agrees to the
terms of this license as a condition of execution of this Software.

License Restrictions.  You may make copies or adaptations of the
Software only for archival purposes or only when copying or adaptation
is an essential step in the authorized use of the Software. You must
reproduce all copyright notices in the original Software on all
permitted copies or adaptations.  You may not offer or provide
unrestricted access to this Software on any public or distributed
network.

Upgrades.  This license does not entitle you to receive upgrades,
updates or technical support.  Such services may be purchased
separately.

Ownership.  The Software and all copies thereof are owned and
copyrighted by Agilent.  Agilent retains all right, title and interest
in the Software.  Agilent and its third party suppliers may protect
their rights in the Software in the event of any violation of these
License Terms.

No Disassembly.  You may not disassemble, decompile or otherwise
modify the Software without written authorization from Agilent, except
as permitted by law.  Upon request, you will provide Agilent with
reasonably detailed information regarding any permitted disassembly,
decompilation or modification.

High Risk Activities.  The Software is not specifically designed,
manufactured or intended for use in the planning, construction,
maintenance or direct operation of a nuclear facility, nor for use in
on line control or fail safe operation of aircraft navigation, control
or communication systems, weapon systems or direct life support
systems.

Termination.  Agilent may terminate your license upon notice for
breach of these License Terms.  Upon termination, you must immediately
destroy all copies of the Software.

No Warranty. THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Limitation of Liability. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO
EVENT WILL AGILENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT OR DATA, OR
FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES,
HOWEVER CAUSED REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF
OR RELATED TO THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF AGILENT
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. In no event will
Agilent's liability to you, whether in contract, tort (including
negligence), or otherwise, exceed the amount paid by you for the
Software. The foregoing limitations will apply even if the above
stated warranty fails of its essential purpose.

Export Requirements.  If you export, re-export or import Software,
technology or technical data licensed hereunder, you assume
responsibility for complying with applicable laws and regulations and
for obtaining required export and import authorizations.  Agilent may
terminate this license immediately if you are in violation of any
applicable laws or regulations.

U.S. Government Restricted Rights.  Software and technical data rights
granted to the federal government include only those rights
customarily provided to end user customers.  Agilent provides this
customary commercial license in Software and technical data pursuant
to FAR 12.211 (Technical Data) and 12.212 (Computer Software) and, for
the Department of Defense, DFARS 252.227-7015 (Technical Data –
Commercial Items) and DFARS 227.7202-3 (Rights in Commercial Computer
Software or Computer Software Documentation).
### Bruker CompassXtract

SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT for CompassXtract and CompassXtract
Libraries

Bruker Daltonik GmbH (hereinafter referred to as "Licensor") has
developed the CompassXtract software program (hereinafter referred to
as "CompassXtract"), which consists of documentation and individual
CompassXtract libraries (hereinafter referred to as "CompassXtract
Libraries"). These license terms constitute an agreement (hereinafter
referred to as "Agreement") between you and Licensor and shall be the
legal basis for any non-commercial usage of Licensor's
CompassXtract. These license terms also apply to any updates or
supplements for CompassXtract or separable parts of CompassXtract such
as CompassXtract Libraries, unless other terms accompany those items,
in which case those terms apply. You may only use CompassXtract as a
whole, if you have downloaded it from Licensor's Webserver at
http://www.bdal.de/compassxtract and accepted this Agreement as
binding between Licensor and you. However, certain individual
CompassXtract Libraries might be conveyed to you by others. In both
cases, you may only legally use CompassXtract or any of the
CompassXtract Libraries conveyed to you after having accepted this
Agreement as binding between Licensor and you.

1. Purpose of CompassXtract and License

CompassXtract is provided as it is, in a trial and development stage,
not yet marketable and without any warranties regarding fitness for
any purpose whatsoever. It may contain errors and defects. The aim and
purpose of providing it free of charge and under the terms of this
Agreement is to discover such errors and defects. It is, inter alia
but not limited to, not designed, manufactured or intended for any use
requiring fail-safe performance in which the failure of CompassXtract
could lead to death, personal injury or physical and environmental
damage, such as the operation of medical facilities. Nor is it, inter
alia but not limited to, designed to perform any queries or operations
which might require reliable results and/or which might be the basis
for business and/or medical decisions. You agree not to use
CompassXtract in connection with any such activities.

2. Rights Granted

You may install and use CompassXtract on any of your computing devices.

3. Use Restrictions

3.1 You may not decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer or modify
CompassXtract.

3.2 You may not distribute CompassXtract to others, breach of which
terminates the rights granted under this agreement. This also applies
to any integration or implementation of CompassXtract to software
developed by you or by others on your behalf (hereinafter referred to
as Own Software) or any distribution of which CompassXtract is part
of. However, you may distribute Own Software which requires the usage
of or links to CompassXtract Libraries if you comply with the
requirements set down in Section 4 of this Agreement.

4. Requirements for Distribution of your own Software using
   CompassXtract Libraries

You may only distribute CompassXtract Libraries to others if all of
the following conditions are met: 4.1 You distribute CompassXtract
Libraries as part of Own Software which you license to third parties

(hereinafter "Your Licensees"); 4.2 Your Own Software requires all the
CompassXtract Libraries distributed by you in order to function

properly when used by Your Licensees;

4.3 You provide to Your Licensee a URL to Licensor's Webserver at
http://www.bdal.de/compassxtract and require Your Licensees, as
condition for being granted the right to use your Own Software, to
acquire the usage rights for CompassXtract directly from Licensor by
agreeing to the terms of this Agreement, which you distribute in
unmodified form with your Own Software.

4.4 In your Own Software's "About" box the following text is
displayed: "This software uses CompassXtract software. Copyright
$copy; 2011 by Bruker Daltonik GmbH. All rights reserved."

5. Restrictions for Distribution of your own Products

5.1 You may not use the Licensor's trademarks in a way that suggests
your software components and/or programs are provided by or are
endorsed by the Licensor.

5.2 You may not commercially exploit CompassXtract, CompassXtract
Libraries or products that require the usage of or link to
CompassXtract or CompassXtract Libraries. Commercial exploitation
includes, but is not limited to, charging a purchase price, license
fee, maintenance fee, or subscription fee.

5.3 Your rights to CompassXtract do not include any license, right,
power or authority to subject CompassXtract in whole or in part to any
of the terms of an Excluded License. "Excluded License" means any
license that requires as a condition of use, modification and/or
distribution of software that such software or other software combined
and/or distributed with such software shall be (a) disclosed or
distributed in source code form; or (b) licensed for the purpose of
making derivative works. Without limiting the foregoing obligation,
you are specifically prohibited from distributing CompassXtract or
CompassXtract Libraries with any software that is subject to the
General Public License (GPL) or similar license in a manner that would
create a combined work.

6. Liability

6.1 As Licensor delivers the software for free, Licensor is not liable
for any kind of damage, direct or indirect, which may arise due to
simple negligence (Section 521 German Civil Code). In the event, that
there should be – for whatever reason – a statutory liability of
Licensor for simple negliegence, the aforementioned exclusion of
liability applies nevertheless, but with the exception of damages to
life, body or health.

6.2 You indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Licensor from any
liability claims, including attorney fees, of third parties in
connection with your usage of CompassXtract as well as the
distribution of your Own Software which requires usage of or links to
CompassXtract Libraries and other circumstances for which you are
responsible.

7. Additional Terms Applicable to CompassXtract

7.1 CompassXtract is licensed, not sold. This License only gives you
some rights to use CompassXtract and the CompassXtract Libraries; the
Licensor reserves all other rights. Unless applicable law gives you
more rights despite this limitation, you may use CompassXtract and the
CompassXtract Libraries only as expressly permitted in this License.

7.2 Licensor has no obligation to fix, update, supplement or support
CompassXtract and/or the CompassXtract Libraries.

7.3 Your rights under this License terminate automatically if you
breach this License in any way. Termination of this License will not
affect any of your obligations or liabilities arising prior to
termination. The following sections of this License shall survive
termination: 3.1, 3.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1., 6.2.

7.4 No subsidiary agreements of this Agreement have been
made. Supplements and amendments to this Agreement must be made in
writing as prescribed by law in order to be valid. The requirement of
written form under this Agreement may be waived in writing only.

7.5 This Agreement is governed by German law to the exclusion of the
UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods. If you
are a consumer, this does not apply if legal provisions, in particular
consumer protection legislation, conflict with this choice. The courts
of Bremen shall have exclusive jurisdiction. If you are not a
merchant, a legal entity under public law or a public-law special fund
in the sense Section 38 of the German Code of Civil Procedure (ZPO),
the agreement on the place of jurisdiction is replaced by the legal
provisions.

7.6 If individual provisions of this Agreement are or become invalid
or contain a gap which needs to be filled, the validity of the
remaining provisions of the Agreement will not be affected
thereby. The Parties hereby undertake to substitute the invalid or
lacking provision with a valid provision which comes closest to the
documented intentions of the Parties.


### Thermo msFileReader

SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT (“License”) FOR MSFileReader

These License terms are an agreement between you and Thermo Finnigan
LLC ("Licensor"). They apply to Licensor’s MSFileReader software
program (“Software”), which includes documentation and any media on
which you received it. These terms also apply to any updates or
supplements for this Software, unless other terms accompany those
items, in which case those terms apply. If you use this Software, you
accept this License. If you do not accept this License, you are
prohibited from using this software.  If you comply with these License
terms, you have the rights set forth below.

1. Rights Granted:

1.1. You may install and use this Software on any of your computing
devices.

1.2. You may distribute this Software to others, but only in
combination with other software components and/or programs that you
provide.

2.  Use Restrictions:

2.1. You may not decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer or modify
this Software.

3. Distribution Requirements:

If you distribute this Software to others, you agree to:

3.1. Indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Licensor from any claims,
including attorneys’ fees, related to the distribution or use of this
Software;

3.2. Display the following text in your software’s “About” box:
“MSFileReader file reading tool. Copyright © 2009 by Thermo Fisher
Scientific, Inc. All rights reserved.”;

3.3. Require your end users to agree to a license agreement that
prohibits them from redistributing this Software to others.

4.  Distribution Restrictions:

4.1. You may not use the Licensor’s trademarks in a way that suggests
your software components and/or programs are provided by or are
endorsed by the Licensor; and

4.2. You may not commercially exploit this Software or products that
incorporate this Software. Commercial exploitation includes, but is
not limited to, charging a purchase price, license fee, maintenance
fee, or subscription fee.

4.3. Your rights to this Software do not include any license, right,
power or authority to subject this Software in whole or in part to any
of the terms of an Excluded License. "Excluded License" means any
license that requires as a condition of use, modification and/or
distribution of software subject to the Excluded License, that such
software or other software combined and/or distributed with such
software be (a) disclosed or distributed in source code form; or (b)
licensed for the purpose of making derivative works.  Without limiting
the foregoing obligation, you are specifically prohibited from
distributing this Software with any software that is subject to the
General Public License (GPL) or similar license in a manner that would
create a combined work.

5.  Additional Terms Applicable to Software:

5.1. This Software is licensed, not sold. This License only gives you
some rights to use this Software; the Licensor reserves all other
rights. Unless applicable law gives you more rights despite this
limitation, you may use this Software only as expressly permitted in
this License.

5.2. Licensor has no obligation to fix, update, supplement or support
this Software.

5.3. This Software is not designed, manufactured or intended for any
use requiring fail-safe performance in which the failure of this
Software could lead to death, serious personal injury or severe
physical and environmental damage (“High Risk Activities”), such as
the operation of aircraft, medical or nuclear facilities. You agree
not to use, or license the use of, this Software in connection with
any High Risk Activities.

5.4. Your rights under this License terminate automatically if you
breach this License in any way. Termination of this License will not
affect any of your obligations or liabilities arising prior to
termination. The following sections of this License shall survive
termination: 2.1, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.5,
5.6, 5.7, 5.8, and 5.9.

5.5. This Software is subject to United States export laws and
regulations. You agree to comply with all domestic and international
export laws and regulations that apply to this Software. These laws
include restrictions on destinations, end users and end use.

5.6. This License shall be construed and controlled by the laws of the
State of California, U.S.A., without regard to conflicts of law. You
consent to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts situated
in the State of California in any action arising under this
License. The application of the U.N. Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods to this License is hereby expressly
excluded. If any provision of this License shall be deemed
unenforceable or contrary to law, the rest of this License shall
remain in full effect and interpreted in an enforceable manner that
most nearly captures the intent of the original language.

5.7. THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED "AS IS". YOU BEAR ALL RISKS OF USING
IT. LICENSOR GIVES NO EXPRESS WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR
GUARANTEES.  YOU MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL CONSUMER RIGHTS UNDER YOUR LOCAL
LAWS WHICH THIS LICENSE CANNOT CHANGE. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER
YOUR LOCAL LAWS, LICENSOR EXCLUDES THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT.

5.8. LICENSOR’S LIABILITY TO YOU FOR DIRECT DAMAGES ARISING UNDER THIS
LICENSE IS LIMITED TO U.S. $1.00. YOU CANNOT RECOVER ANY OTHER
DAMAGES, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL, LOST PROFITS, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF LICENSOR IS EXPRESSLY MADE AWARE OF THE
POSSIBILITY THEREOF OR IS NEGLIGENT. THIS LIMITATION APPLIES TO
ANYTHING RELATED TO THIS SOFTWARE, SERVICES, CONTENT (INCLUDING CODE)
ON THIRD PARTY INTERNET SITES, OR THIRD PARTY PROGRAMS, AND CLAIMS FOR
BREACH OF CONTRACT, BREACH OF WARRANTY, GUARANTEE OR CONDITION, STRICT
LIABILITY, NEGLIGENCE, OR OTHER TORT TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW.

5.9. Use, duplication or disclosure of this Software by the
U.S. Government is subject to the restricted rights applicable to
commercial computer software (under FAR 52.227019 and DFARS
252.227-7013 or parallel regulations). The manufacturer for this
purpose is Thermo Finnigan LLC, 355 River Oaks Parkway, San Jose,
California 95134, U.S.A.
### Waters WRDAC
END-USER SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS FOR WATERS WRDAC SOFTWARE

Waters grants you a nonexclusive and terminable license to (i) use the
software to perform internal information and data processing in
connection with Waters and other non-Waters instrumentation products
for non-commercial purposes only and (ii) distribute the software as
part of the ProteoWizard Software version 2.1 for non-commercial
purposes only.  You may not incorporate the software into a commercial
application nor charge any fee for the software.  The software is
protected by the copyright laws of the United States and international
treaties.  You may not distribute, assign, rent, sublicense,
“timeshare,” or transfer the software. You may not publish the results
of any benchmark tests on the software. Any use of the software other
than as expressly permitted by the license grant is prohibited.  Title
and full ownership rights to the software remain with Waters and with
the manufacturers of any third-party software included with the
software. The software contains trade secrets of Waters and any
third-party manufacturers and in order to protect them, you may not
copy, modify, adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile,
disassemble, or otherwise reduce the software to a human-perceivable
form, or create derivative works of the software.  You agree upon
termination to discontinue the use of the software and to destroy, or
return to Waters, the software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, BY STATUTE OR OTHERWISE, REGARDING THE WRDAC, INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND MERCHANTABILITY.  Waters shall not be liable
for any direct, indirect, special, consequential or punitive damages
of any kind arising out of or in connection with the software.  In the
event that the foregoing disclaimers are not effective under
applicable law, Waters’ total liability under this Agreement shall not
exceed the normal commercial value of the software provided hereunder.
The parties acknowledge that such limited liability is a reasonable
allocation of the risks.

You agree to comply fully with all relevant export laws and
regulations of the United States ("Export Laws") to ensure that the
software is (a) not exported directly or indirectly in violation of
Export Laws and (b) not intended to be used for any purposes
prohibited by the Export Laws. If you are a branch of the United
States government, you shall have "restricted rights" to use,
duplicate, or disclose the software as set forth in subdivision
(c)(1)(ii) of Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software Federal
Acquisition Regulations Supplement (DFARS) 252.227-7013 or
subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial Computer
Software-Restricted Rights at 48 CFR 52.227_19.
